[Music]
in this video I answer a question from a
supporter on patreon really several
questions from several supporters on
patreon it's a question I have never
heard put to any contemporary politician
net I've never seen anyone ask Bill
Clinton that's I've never seen anyone
ask George W Bush this Donald Trump etc
and in a sense it's the most obvious and
inevitable question for us to ask in
2019 really any year during my lifetime
question is what nail is the opposite of
cultural genocide what now is the
alternative to cultural genocide looking
ahead to the future given the past
colonial experience of conquest North
America given that as as one of these
people ready to me says given that it's
not really plausible now for people of
European ancestry to just say sorry we
shouldn't have done that we'll pack up
and leave this is not an easily
reversible or ex trickable situation or
we can just eliminate the sure peon
population of North America or Australia
and I don't know if you really did poll
indigenous people Canada United States
Australia I don't know what percentage
them even would favor that kind of
solution of actually removing the
European population obviously that would
you know result in abandoned cities on
an unimaginable scale and in a very real
sense the collapse of of civilization it
is in a word unimaginable
what really is the alternative
I'm not interested in being easy on
myself here I'm interested in
challenging myself and kind of pushing
my own position into a corner into its
limits nobody else is gonna challenge me
so I got to challenge myself on these
things I can imagine being an indigenous
person in Taiwan when the European
colonists showed up I can imagine being
in the indigenous tribal Taiwanese
society when Dutch Christian
missionaries sure that was the Dutch it
was people from the Netherlands Holland
what everyone say and I can imagine
absolutely embracing the Dutch as
representing a more advanced
civilization technologically in terms of
literature I can imagine being one of
the tribal people there who saw this as
progress as a way out of the
inexplicable horror of what witchcraft
and perpetual internecine warfare were
like on the island of Taiwan before the
arrival of the Europeans if you don't
know what Taiwanese tribal society was
like you could google it you could read
a Wikipedia article or something
there are definitely academic articles
I've read a fair bit about that I leave
it up to your imagination but suffice it
to say this was not a Garden of Eden
this was not paradise life was nasty
brutish and short and they had some
unbelievably dark beliefs about human
sexuality and reproduction um put it
this way European Christianity would
have been sexually liberating compared
to what they were doing there in terms
of reproduction is really really brutal
and horrible for everyone especially the
women okay so this is not me playing
devil's advocate this is me really
saying look when you understand history
when you use sympathy as an analytical
tool when you sympathize with
both sides of the historical conflict at
every stage you can see yourself in
those historical situations being on the
side that now in some detached sense in
retrospect might be considered evil you
might say to me what do you mean eyes'll
what do you mean how can you possibly
say that you would have been one of the
people who betrayed your own nationality
your own language your own culture to
put it in a less stark contrast in terms
the level of Technology what if you were
in Japan what if you were a traditional
Japanese villager maybe just struggling
to become a literate in a country where
the vast majority of people were
illiterate and where the writing system
was incredibly difficult pre-modern
Japanese what if you were a Japanese
villager at the time when the Dutch
first showed up there again it was
actually specifically the Dutch
Netherlands
who were the European colonists who were
showing up in Japan and what are the
Dutch have with them they have
illustrated books that show you the map
of the whole world
they have Illustrated books that show
you what's inside the human body they
have medical instruments that can
perform surgery that can cure conditions
that you used to think of in terms of
demons infesting people medical
conditions that maybe in the past you
only could try to treat with completely
superstitious rituals I'm aware of some
incredibly brutal and stupid buddhist
rituals that existed in pre-modern japan
but whatever whether buddhist animist
shinto or what-have-you
diseases that formerly you were
powerless to comprehend and certainly
you had no way of treating or curing
that's who shows up the Dutch guess what
else they bring with them
Christianity European colonialism and so
on I don't know I don't know if I had
been centuries ago a member of the Cree
the Ghibli the mohawk I don't know if
I being the person I am intellectually
curious ravenous looking for social
change looking to improve my own society
with my own set of humanitarian
instincts that in some ways the
Christian faith even caters to or
exploits I don't know if I would have
been the most eager adopter of an
advocate for European colonialism
despite the detached perspective I have
today of looking back where you can say
isn't it a terrible thing that in the
history of Canada all of the best and
brightest young men of most of the First
Nations countries they were putting
their time and energy into being
mercenaries working for the Europeans
instead of fighting against them well
maybe I would have to well that was the
exciting news source of part isn't it
terrible that the best and brightest
members of all the First Nations were
exactly the ones who became Christian
missionaries themselves who joined the
clergy whether Protestant or Catholic
whatever you want to say isn't it
terrible that the Europeans were able
sometimes just with money but sometimes
by opening up that book by presenting a
whole new world of concepts and
opportunities that they were able to
turn the whole strength of indigenous
people against themselves ultimately
leading to the total devastation of
these peoples and their societies and
creating the disaster that we have today
normally what mainstream politicians
present to us is basically genocide or
genocide with a mask of cultural
pluralism sensitivity multiculturalism
put onto it right either just an
outright celebration of European
colonialism genocide or the continuation
of that European colonialism and
genocide plus a new Memorial Museum in
Washington DC Museum of the American
Indian there is a visitor there's a
museum devoted to the history
of indigenous peoples of Canada in
Ottawa capital city of Canada there's
another Museum we have in Canada the
[Music]
Human Rights Museum that's out in the
middle of the prairies and these museums
really ideologically serve the same
function as Holocaust museums with in
Germany or Holocaust museums within
Poland
the white people are never gonna give
the land back right that's that's what
it boils down to you get a museum you
get a token you get a memorial we just
saw several on this trip through Europe
both Germany and France you get a great
big shiny gravestone as an apology put
down on the ashes of your destroyed
civilization and then history rolls on
so is there an alternative and really
implicitly the question being asked here
why is nobody talking about it and what
it would would entail something else
happened within just the last couple of
days it'd be nice to imagine there's
some people my audience who know me well
enough that they could challenge me with
this this kind of thing but almost at
random the history of a particular
native tribe within the United States
came up and I googled it and read the
Wikipedia article and then clicked
around and found some YouTube videos
from that particular tribe and their
efforts at at language revival today and
I was looking at an example of a tribe
that today is ethnically completely
indistinguishable from white people
obviously that's partly through
intermarriage it's partly through
cultural genocide it's partly through
genocide in the most literal sense cuz I
did read about their history of warfare
conquest relocation forced relocation
etc um so the surviving people who
either have a link by name or ancestry
it's obviously down to a very very small
percentage of their ancestry that links
to this this group of indigenous
and their language went extinct and
although I sympathize they've attempted
to revive their language using
handwritten records from Jesuit priests
and you know having studied Korean a Jib
way listening to their very clumsy
attempts to pronounce that language that
to speak it I was wincing I was I felt
embarrassed for everyone involved and I
felt deeply embarrassed a group of
people you know who were in these
YouTube videos proclaiming their core
sense of cultural identity and how much
it meant to them to have these rituals
and dances and blankets and handicrafts
and even to some extent legends and
mythology all of which was at best
non-continuous
just say there's no continuous tradition
and at worst we can say it's fake fake
in the sense that it's been
reconstructed from accounts that were
written of what that culture was like by
Jesuit missionaries um I don't know
maybe they have one account written by
saying anthropologist but based on what
I read I doubt that I think probably all
of the perspectives will be from
Christian outsiders who were in the
process of dissolving that culture
however you want to say it and just
documented it in passing so obviously
you're never really gonna know even what
those myths and legends were what those
meant to those people in the same way by
the way I've seen white pagans within
Europe trying to revive pre-christian
religion that exist in Europe before was
destroyed by the Catholic Church but the
only thing they have to go on in one
case I remember wasn't it the only
record of local religion were from
interrogations under torture of
quote-unquote witches people who are
still carrying on the traditional
religion while being interrogated for
witchcraft what it was they they confess
to you could never get back to the
philosophy values
or what-have-you and of course this type
of reconstructed pseudo culture is false
in many other ways gone is any interest
in the the warrior culture that's very
interesting when you look at the
Anthropology and the celebration of what
is indigenous even from a European
perspective up to a certain point in
history one of the main things both
Europeans are celebrating and that the
first nation of the indigenous people
themselves are celebrating is their
warlike nature their warrior culture
that after a certain point you have the
reinvention of their history as if they
had never been warlike at all as if they
had they they had been living completely
peacefully and more entirely the victims
of European aggression etc so what I
mean obviously both are misleading
they're both ideologically driven
attempts to rewrite history but
nevertheless there are many elements of
the indigenous culture that you know are
being deleted even in the process of
quote-unquote celebrating it so the
question is now in 2019 what is the
alternative to genocide and obviously
I'm intentionally leaving this
particular tribe unnamed I would not be
happy to see a thoroughly phony knockoff
second-rate version of indigenous
culture being scaled up and imitated
insincerely by white people by Hispanic
people by african-american black people
on a massive scale I think everyone
would find that insulting and
denigrating to their own intelligence
I've been here before so I wasn't
shocked to see like the beadwork and
like they make all this what do you
think it's really good some of their
beatings better than mine that's for
sure
yeah I'm not offended at all they're
like just like sisters or brothers they
sit and they'll drink we'll have tea or
coffee and they're just very respectful
very just just wanting to learn it is so
very Eurocentric in nature it's so very
whitewashed and so very miss
interpretive of natives and native
cultures traditions and people is that
there's that why you're anything obvious
I'm against hobby ism because it's a
form of colonialism I can't imagine that
the people of North America or Australia
now are going to remove Christianity
from the churches that cover these
continents and replace it with a phony
version of an indigenous religion based
on the description of that religion that
was set down by Jesuit missionaries and
other Christians there were plenty of
Protestants did this too when they
really had no interest except to destroy
those native peoples and to replace
their culture with with Christianity and
the native people who hung on long
enough to have German anthropologists
show up and document their culture the
best documents we have what Cree culture
was like or from German anthropologists
embarassingly Canadians never showed as
much interest as the Germans so it goes
it's it's significant that nobody's even
proposing this or asking for that the
real alternate history that we're
reaching out for is not history in which
indigenous culture remained untouched by
European colonialism but an alternate
history in which that a digitus culture
had a chance to adapt in which it had a
chance to modernize in response to
Western influence without being
eliminated and of course we do have an
example of that in Japan right
if you just walk around any Street in
modern-day Japan and ask yourself how
much of what I see is the result of
European influence Japanese traditional
culture was completely transformed
materially and if the indigenous peoples
of Australia and North America had had a
non genocidal confrontation with
European civilization they likewise
would have appropriated from European
civilization would have imitated the
light bulb paved roads concrete fire
hydrants all of these things but what
would be different well the Japanese
they still speak the Japanese language
don't they and I mean some of you
watching this video can appreciate the
gravity of this and and some of you
can't there's a real sense in which you
will never understand the Japanese
people or their culture without
understanding the language the language
represents not just a different way of
scribbling on a piece of paper but in a
profound and important sense a different
way of thinking I don't believe in
bloodlines you know I really I'm very
skeptical about the significance of DNA
put it that way I don't think that what
really matters now in 2019 is the color
of anyone's skin but yeah I do see it as
a tremendously important challenge to
bring back the languages from the brink
of extinction
and to really expand the role and
significance of those languages today
now tacked on here almost as an
afterthought look in terms of the
question I was given anyone can take one
look at the American house of Congress
and the American Senate and say where
are the indigenous people anyone can
take a look at the Canadian system of
parliament and say where are the
indigenous people how do these systems
actually serve the public of the native
people and it's a disaster I could make
a separate video on that but long story
short the political system itself needs
to change
it needs to change very radically and
very fundamentally in Canada that was
legally recognized and what was called
the RCA P the world Commission on
average Aboriginal peoples our political
system was invented to be genocide oh it
was invented to not merely fail to
represent the interests of indigenous
people but to actively exclude and
extinguish them that's why our system
works the way it does and it is not much
of an exaggeration to say the same about
the American system of Congress and so
on for the state legislatures okay so
there are very obvious very fundamental
changes that happen that need to happen
politically at the level of
representation level of democracy even
if it's simply the level of every tribe
of being able to elect a representative
who goes to Parliament or goes to
Congress however it is you want to
handle this there's a huge obvious
political question there but yeah the
cultural question the future of a
continent that is not genocide the
opposite of genocide obviously it's not
just going to be political
representation and I think it would be
very tragic indeed if you sold the
problem political representation but
still everyone in Congress was just
speaking English right
or just speaking Spanish when you get
into Latin America etc I do think
there's a very real question of devoting
resources not just money not just
schools but sure maybe literally
emptying out some of those churches and
not replacing one false and oppressive
religion with another false and
oppressive religion but maybe looking
for a very real opportunity to create
and sustain indigenous language
education how different would Japan be
today if after opening up those books
and opening up their minds to European
influence they hadn't merely taken you
know science geography ultimately of
course electricity concrete steel
warships no the rest of it what if today
there was nobody left in Japan who could
speak Japanese
what would be the significance of
Japanese culture Japanese song dance
handicrafts the decorative arts if the
Japanese people had lost the Japanese
language from my perspective nothing
from my perspective having a different
way to weave a basket and having a
different form of DNA or a different
color of skin those things are really
very meaningless to me song and dance
doesn't mean a whole lot especially not
when nobody alive can understand the
lyrics to the song the language the
language and hopefully with it the
literature the history and understanding
of the philosophy of the perspective the
language is the real struggle for the
future of hearts and minds it's going to
be with the prospect of indigenous
language revival that the alternative to
genocide stands or Falls
[Music]